{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang2057\deflangfe1041{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Calibri Light;}{\f1\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f2\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times;}}
{\colortbl ;\red46\green116\blue181;\red31\green77\blue120;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\stylesheet{ Normal;}{\s1 heading 1;}{\s2 heading 2;}{\s3 heading 3;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.10586}{\*\mmathPr\mdispDef1\mwrapIndent1440 }\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\keep\keepn\widctlpar\s2\sb40\sl252\slmult1\cf1\f0\fs26 See the Sights of San Francisco\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\widctlpar\f2\fs20 The precipitous hills in San Francisco make it a city best explored by public transport. Grab a Muni Passport, and ride the buses, streetcars, Metro, and\emdash of course\emdash the historic cable cars.\par
\par
\par
One of the best ways to get familiar with the city is to ride the Powell-Mason or Powell-Hyde cable car from Market Street. This takes you through Union Square, up over Nob Hill, through Chinatown, down to the waterfront at Fisherman\rquote s Wharf. Stop off at Chinatown to soak in the unique atmosphere of the largest Chinatown outside Asia. And if Chinese food sets your mouth watering, there are nearly 200 authentic Chinese restaurants to choose from.\par
\par
\par
If you prefer seafood, then you\rquote ll love Fisherman\rquote s Wharf. Even if you\rquote re not hungry, just stroll around the waterfront looking at the fishing boats and watching sea lions basking in the sun. Out in the Bay lies Alcatraz (the Rock), once home to notorious criminals, including Al Capone.\par
\par
\par
To visit Alcatraz, it\rquote s advisable to book the ferry tickets online because they usually sell out about a week in advance. You\rquote re left free to wander around the Rock and the former federal prison. Budget about two and a half hours for the trip, and be prepared for changeable weather.\par
\par
\par
If you can't get tickets for Alcatraz, take one of the many boat trips around San Francisco Bay. They take you around the Rock and out to the Golden Gate Bridge, another iconic symbol of the city.\par
\par
\par
Just a few ideas to get you started exploring this fascinating city.\par
\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\widctlpar\s2\sb40\sl252\slmult1\cf1\f0\fs26 Tourist Information\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\widctlpar\f2\fs20 There\rquote s no shortage of information about what to see while in San Francisco. The San Francisco Visitor Information Center is the official travel and visitors\rquote  guide to the city, with information in 14 languages.\par
\par
\par
Among the many unofficial sites, the Lonely Planet guide to San Francisco is packed with useful information.\par
\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\widctlpar\s3\sb40\sl252\slmult1\cf2\f0\fs26 Sightseeing Tours\fs24\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\widctlpar\f2\fs20 One way to see the city is on an open-top bus, a hop-on, hop-off service that offers either prerecorded or live commentary. The route goes over the Golden Gate Bridge, giving stunning views across the city (as long as it\rquote s not shrouded in fog!)\par
\par
\par
If you\rquote re feeling more energetic, several companies offer bicycle rental. You can even cycle across the Golden Gate Bridge on the wide bike path.\par
\par
\par
And for something completely different\'85 Why not see the city on a Segway?\par
\par
\f1\fs22\par
\f2\fs20 Captions:\par
\par
The front seat of a cable car affords a great view of the city\par
\par
Alcatraz\emdash former exclusive residence for notorious criminals\par
\par
\par
Links:\par
Muni Passport:\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK http://www.sfmta.com/cms/mfares/passports.htm }}{\fldrslt{http://www.sfmta.com/cms/mfares/passports.htm\ul0\cf0}}}}\f2\fs20\par
\par
largest Chinatown outside Asia:\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK http://www.sanfranciscochinatown.com/ }}{\fldrslt{http://www.sanfranciscochinatown.com/\ul0\cf0}}}}\f2\fs20\par
\par
Fisherman\rquote s Wharf:\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK http://www.fishermanswharf.org/ }}{\fldrslt{http://www.fishermanswharf.org/\ul0\cf0}}}}\f2\fs20\par
\par
book the ferry tickets online:\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK http://www.alcatrazcruises.com/index.aspx }}{\fldrslt{http://www.alcatrazcruises.com/index.aspx\ul0\cf0}}}}\f2\fs20\par
\par
San Francisco Visitor Information Center:\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK http://www.sanfrancisco.travel/ }}{\fldrslt{http://www.sanfrancisco.travel/\ul0\cf0}}}}\f2\fs20\par
\par
Lonely Planet guide to San Francisco:\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK http://www.lonelyplanet.com/usa/san-francisco }}{\fldrslt{http://www.lonelyplanet.com/usa/san-francisco\ul0\cf0}}}}\f2\fs20\par
\par
an open-top bus:\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK http://www.bigbustours.com/eng/sanfrancisco/custompage.aspx }}{\fldrslt{http://www.bigbustours.com/eng/sanfrancisco/custompage.aspx\ul0\cf0}}}}\f2\fs20\par
\par
see the city on a Segway:\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK http://www.electrictourcompany.com/ }}{\fldrslt{http://www.electrictourcompany.com/\ul0\cf0}}}}\f2\fs20\par
\par
}
